Producer Jermaine ‘Crawba Genius’ Henry of Crawba Production is set to release his EP called “Border PO” featuring a slew of prominent artists. The riddim project is set for release on March 3, 2023. Producer Jermaine ‘Crawba Genius’ Henry of Crawba ProductionThe producer who previously worked with Busy Signal on “Wha Gwan Mad Head” will be releasing a new track called “Party Nice” which is on Border PO and is sure to put fans in a good mood ahead of the summer. Crawba Genius shared that the name Border PO is inspired by the name of the community that he originates from. The six-track riddim also features artists Iwaata on the song “Yea Me Love”, It’s Dia from the Bahamas on “Tik Tok Damages”, and two songs featured on Charly Black’s latest album ‘No Excuses’- “More and More” featuring Bounty Killer and "Short up Shorts". The producer shared that the EP is a solid dancehall project that incorporates authentic dancehall beats but also incorporates soca elements perfect for the party and events scene. Henry has extensive experience producing cross-genre music including reggaeton and has songwriting and co-production credits on Maluma’s “Agua Jamaica” and previously worked on the Afrobeats-reggae track “African Love” by Miss V and Warrior King. The producer said he is passionate about creating music fans enjoy and promoting Jamaican culture. “I’m working with artists from other genres but dancehall flavour and dancehall element are important. No matter what genre or artists, we always keep the dancehall sound to identify because we are promoting Jamaica everywhere in the world,” he said. The producer also shared that there is an opportunity for other producers and artists to create cross-over music but marketing is important to any music success. “There is success in dancehall also but there is huge potential for crossing over. In dancehall, we don’t have a big machinery like when you’re working with international artists with a major label. They have the ‘engine’ and support that dancehall doesn’t but our sound is still large in the world, reggae and dancehall music is international and needs proper marketing to ensure Jamaican music continues to grow and thrive,” Crawba said. He continued, “You have to focus a lot on marketing because the consumers are there and you have to make happy and feel good music because people want to dance. You have to invest in marketing to ensure that the song is put out and people know what you are doing. You have to have good production and good marketing to have people know what you are doing to get it to the right ears.” Crawba previously worked with artists Julian Marley, Busy Signal, Renee 6:30, Capleton, Maluma, Osmani Garcia, Future and Lil Durk and others. Henry has also produced many songs for diamond-selling artist, Charly Black and others.