Ft Lauderdale, FL — Fresh from an appearance in Melbourne, Australia, Steve Higgins Productions comes to The Broward Center for the Performing Arts with “Love & Nostalgia” on Saturday, March 18th 2023. The Show, commemorating Jamaica’s 60th anniversary as an independent nation, comes to us under the auspices of Jamaica’s Consul General to the Southeast USA, Mr. Oliver Mair, who launched to Tour in April of last year along with Mayor Judy Paul of Davie. It is being presented with support from the Broward Center’s Arts Access Program. The Diamond Jubilee Tour began in April 2022 in Houston Texas, and features singers Dahlia Wynter, April Marr and Steve Higgins, who will present Jamaican Folk Music, delivered in their historical context (along with the stories behind them), Jamaican Ska, Lover’s Rock, and Reggae favorites as well as other genres of delightful music, from Jazz to Ballads to Broadway! This year, we will have singing sensation Matthew Higgins and creative dancer Amaya Lewis back on the BCPA stage, and will introduce delightful, young performers, soprano Amalia Rosales, and dancer- Shevanese Williams, who will make their debut with the Production. What can the audience expect? Jamaicans in the audience who have not visited their homeland in a while, will be given a treat of our rich rhythmic and exciting Jamaican Folk music, along with the colorful stories and accounts that will evoke much nostalgia and warmth. They will want to sing along (with their offspring, with whom I am sure they have shared their culture), dance and reminisce of the days long past, when they grew up on this beautiful, exotic island. During past shows, as some familiar folk songs started, our audience ‘broke-out’ (bruk-out) into spontaneous enthusiastic dancing and spirited child-like prancing, bubbling with excitement and vigorous abandonment! Of course, our friends who were not born in Jamaica (‘honorary Jamaicans’) will learn more about Jamaica and will be welcomed to join the fun! “You can expect a memorable and exciting evening of top rate Jamaican entertainment from Steve Higgins and his crew” says Consul General Oliver Mair, “as our cultural ambassadors continue to make us proud, showcasing the spirit of Jamaica in songs”. Special recognition was given to the quality work that Steve Higgins Productions has been doing as Jamaican Cultural ambassador over the years, in the Diaspora across the continents. Higgins also hailed the Consul General as patron, for his sterling support to Jamaican arts and culture since his appointment in 2018. Concerts and workshops on Jamaican Folk Music were presented in Texas, Alabama (Huntsville and Birmingham), New York, North Carolina, London, Birmingham (UK), Australia, and multiple cities in Florida. Steve Higgins Productions received Proclamations from The Town of Davie, Florida as well as Huntsville, Alabama (Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion), recognizing their music and their work in the communities in promoting Jamaica’s anniversary of independence. Higgins also received certificate of special Congressional Recognition from the US Government for his contribution to the community. The Jamaica 60 Tour presents exciting, interactive, and informative Cultural Workshops, as well as a signature Concert, featuring Jamaican and international genres. “Our events attract a diverse audience of all ethnicities including Caribbean nationals, Americans, Britons, cultural enthusiasts, scholars, and music lovers”, said Steve Higgins, Producer of the Tour, “We will reach children of all backgrounds and share our culture” Higgins says, “and we thank our Jamaican Consulates, Embassies and High Commissions for their strategic partnership and strong support as we promote Jamaica’s culture in the global community”. “This Legacy Tour—an educational exposé on Jamaican folk music,” says Higgins,” features every aspect of Jamaican life including love, “labrish”, spirituality, slavery and life celebrations. The songs are indigenous to Jamaica and come from a mixture of influences—Africa, Britain, Spain, the Maroons and Jamaica’s indigenous people, the Tainos.” Songs such as “Day-O”, “Manuel Road”, “Dis Long Time Gal”, “Colon Man” and “Fan Mi Soldier Man” elicited feelings of interest, nostalgia and fun! The Jamaica-60 tour, sponsored by the Jamaica Tourist Board, is designed to be a narrative of Jamaica’s history through music and a way to pass the culture down to descendants of Jamaicans. Part proceeds will go to the Partners for Youth Foundation and the STEP Centre for Children with multiple disabilities. More information including how to buy a ticket can be found here: https://www.browardcenter.org/events/detail/steve-higgins-and-friends