UNITED KINGDOM – Golden Jaguars midfielder Neil Danns has been appointed head coach of English professional football club Macclesfield FC, his first permanent managerial role in the sport. Neil DannsThe club said in a statement on Tuesday that 40-year-old Danns, who had been interim head coach since last month, will be in the role until at least the end of the 2022/23 season. Danns, who joined Macclesfield FC in September 2021 and scored 22 goals during his first season, described his confirmation in the position as “a great honor” and “an absolute privilege”. “I’ve always had a buzz for playing and stuff like that but to be given a different role now has really excited me even more,” the Guyana international said in an interview on the club’s website. Danns has had a long career in English football, representing 16 clubs and playing in each of the top four divisions. He has made more than 650 appearances in club football and won four promotions. He also earned a recall to the Guyana national team for the friendlies against Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago last year and scored in both games. Danns also played in the 2022 CONCACAF Nations League fixtures against Haiti, Bermuda and Montserrat. Macclesfield FC said that since being named in their interim capacity, Danns and his assistant Mark Duffy – who has also been confirmed in that role – had performed well and the passion, desire and work ethic shown by the Northern Premier League Division One West leaders showed that the players were “unwaveringly behind the new coaching team”. “As such, the influence that Neil and Mark have had on the side has been a crucial factor in our recent successes – with the respect that they command in the dressing room also a pivotal factor,” it added. The club’s Director of Football Robbie Savage added: “Having seen the players’ application and incredible desire to fight for Neil and Mark over recent weeks, that told me that this move was the right one. “We all wanted Neil and Mark to get the job on a permanent basis but we had to make sure that this was right for all parties first. For me, one of the most important things is that the players are visibly giving everything they have got for this club and they are doing it with smiles on their faces. That tells you everything you need to know about where we are at and why this move was the right one to make. “Now the players need to work harder than ever before for both Neil and Mark, as well as the club in general to give us the very best chance of achieving all our goals,” he added. Savage said he was confidence that Macclesfield FC’s “rich vein of form” will continue under Danns’ and Duffy’s guidance.