PORT AU PRINCE, Haiti – Prime Minister Dr. Ariel Henry has met with the high command of the National Police of Haiti (PNH) following last weekend’s ambush by criminal gangs that left three police officers dead, one other missing and another hospitalised. Prime Minister Dr. Ariel Henry meeting with the police high command in HaitiHenry met with the acting director of the PNH, Frantz Elbé as well as members of the High Command, in what had been described as a “ visit of sympathy” following the deadly attack last Friday, when  heavily armed criminals ambushed a police patrol in the Métivier area, near the town of Diègue, east of the capital, Port au Prince.. Media reports said that the police patrol had been on its way to the area after reports of one criminal gang was seeking to regain possession of the territories held by the former policeman, Alex Armstrong Dumornay, now a gang leader. A statement following Henry’s meeting on Sunday noted that while expressing words of sympathy to the family and parents of those police officers killed, he praised the professionalism of the PNH which he said “continues to fulfill its mission to protect and serve the population”. In a statement, the PNH denounced the deadly attack. “The General Directorate takes this opportunity to wish its most sincere condolences to the parents, friends and loved ones of all the victims, in particular the police officers, and to the entire large police family hard hit by these brutal disappearances.” The PNH said it is also appealing “for calm and respect for …all police officers whose sensitive mission places them on the front line to face dangers of all kinds to protect and serve the population”. Since January 10, at least eight police officers have been killed and several others injured in the French-speaking Caribbean Community (CARICOM) country where criminal gangs have been engaged in various activities including kidnapping for ransom. In addition, opposition parties have been staging demonstrations here calling for the removal of Prime Minister Henry, who came to office in July 2021 following the assassination of President Jovenel Moise.