PARADISE ISLAND, Bahamas – Atlantis Paradise Island,  is announcing its inaugural Nassau Paradise Island Wine & Food Festival (NPIWFF), taking place Wednesday, March 15 – Sunday, March 19, 2023. The five-day festival showcases world-renowned top chefs, master sommeliers, mixologists, and notable TV personalities, including Tony Abou-Ganim, Alex Guarnaschelli, JJ Johnson, Aarón Sánchez, Alon Shaya, Michael White and Andrew Zimmern, plus a performance by Grammy® Award-winning and Golden Globe-nominated rapper Wyclef Jean at Jerk Jam on March 18. Duff Goldman and DJ Kim Lee, from Netflix’s Bling Empire, host the festival’s closing night Sugar & Spice after party at The Cove pool. The festival will highlight the Bahamas as a growing culinary and entertainment hub while generating awareness for Atlantis Blue Project Foundation, a nonprofit, 501(c)(3), founded in 2005 with the mission to protect and preserve marine wildlife and its endangered habitats throughout the Bahamas and Caribbean seas. After Atlantis’ successful Taste of Paradise Food & Wine Festival, the newly named Nassau Paradise Island Wine & Food Festival will be expanded to include local and regional chefs and restaurants, music performances, exclusive dinners, beachside parties, culinary demos and family-friendly activities hosted throughout the resort. In addition to bringing internationally acclaimed chefs, sommeliers, and mixologists to the Bahamas for the highly anticipated five-day festival, Atlantis Paradise Island is the only destination in the Caribbean with three Michelin-rated chefs – boosting the Bahamas as the ultimate culinary destination in the region. While participating in events with visiting celebrity chefs, guests can dine like a local and enjoy the island’s long-standing dining favorites, including Sip Sip, McKenzie’s Conch Shack, Bimini Road, Sun & Ice gelato and ice cream by Bahamian chef Wayne Moncur, locally produced beers, and Paradise Rum, Atlantis’ signature rum produced by John Watling’s Nassau distillery. Guests will also experience the highly anticipated new restaurants and bars opening at the resort, including Paranza from Michelin-starred chef Michael White, Café Martinique helmed by globally acclaimed chef Adrian Delcourt and The Dilly Club, the new offshoot of locally loved Bon Vivants Bar & Café. Festival attendees will spend five days in culinary bliss – set to the backdrop of Atlantis’ renowned paradise location, with five miles of white sand beaches, crystal blue waters and #BahamasAtHeart hospitality. The complete line-up of festival events, live entertainment and appearances can be found online at npiwff.org or atlantisbahamas.com.