PARAMARIBO, Suriname – Vice President, Ronnie Brunswijk, says he does not support the recommend for changes to the electoral system saying that some electoral districts will be adversely affected. Vice President, Ronnie Brunswijk“I told them it could be a dilemma,” he said, noting that the change will only be beneficial for Paramaribo and Wanica and that all other electoral districts will decline. He said for example,  Nickerie will be able to fall back from five to three seats insisting also that there must be significant political support for the changes. The Constitutional Court has declared the division of seats to be contrary to the Suriname Constitution and international treaties. It has said that the district boundaries have also disappeared. But Brunswijk, speaking at a political event where Pertjajah Luhur (PL) and the General Liberation and Development Party (ABOP) said they would be contesting the 2025 general election as a coalition, reiterated that changes to the system will bring about problems. “If you’re not careful, we won’t be able to do it even, because we’re going to disagree.  You have to have 34 seats; NDP (main opposition National Democratic Party) has to agree, ABOP has to agree, PL has to agree, VHP (Progressive Reform Party) has to agree. “If we don’t …reach an agreement, we will not go to the elections To change the Electoral Regulations, a two-thirds majority is needed in the National Assembly,” Brunswijk said, adding “I told them that it is not good, it is detrimental to the inhabitants of the interior. “People spoke of cheap seats. Well, know that if Nickerie had five seats, it will now be four or three. Equality principle right, do you see how that works? People thought that they would only affect the interior, but it affects all of Suriname. “The only places where the change is profitable are Paramaribo and Wanica. All other districts have a problem! They thought I didn’t understand anything. Well, let them change it quickly. I’m waiting for them,” the Vice President added. PL chairman, Paul Somohardjo says there should be a referendum with the people deciding whether the electoral system should remain as it is or not. “I’ve been in politics for 50 years. No one spoke of justice or injustice. Everything was good. I am personally against the amendment of the electoral law. Why? Because we have learned to live with this electoral law. Nothing wrong. NDP has been, NPS has been, always worked. And suddenly… “If the majority wants change, then I bow. But not only Somohardjo has to bow. Not only the ABOP. Let’s bring it to the people. Let there be a referendum. Let the people decide whether the electoral law will be changed. Then we can talk about a just change,” Somohardjo said. He recalled that when the same matter was brought up in 2017 under the then Desi Bouterse government, both the PL and the ABOP were also against the move.