PORT OF SPAIN, Trinidad – The Cabinet has approved specific financial measures to assist the Steelband movement for Carnival 2023 and the Panorama competition for 2023. CarnivalSteelbandFollowing a recent meeting, the Cabinet agreed to pay grants of  to unsponsored Steelbands for Carnival 2023; and also make a payment  of  TT$500.00 remittance (One TT dollar =US$0.16 cents) to each steelpan player for Panorama 2023. In a statement, the Ministry of Tourism, Culture and the Arts said the  measures are being taken in recognition of the significant role Steelbands and the Steelband movement plays in the cultural and social fabric and development here in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as, the financial difficulties faced by individuals and organization in the Steelpan movement as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic. “In recent years, the government has traditionally provided financial support to facilitate the participation of unsponsored Steelbands in national Carnival celebrations. The allocation of these funds are utilized for essential preparatory activities such as transportation, the blending, chroming, and repairing instruments,” the statement noted. For Carnival 2023, Cabinet has approved grants payable in the sum of TT$15- thousand in support of Conventional Bands and $7,500 in support of Single Pan Bands. These grants will be made available to a total of 153 Steelbands: 94 Conventional bands and 59 Single Pan Bands. According to the Ministry, Panorama is a fundamental part of the national Carnival celebrations and “is a significant ingredient into our Carnival product.” In 1998, Government introduced a payment of a grant to Steelpan player (Remittance) that participate in the annual Panorama competitions. These Remittances served as much needed resources to the Steelpan player many of whom were from difficult socio-economic backgrounds. “Given the socio-economic climate, it would prove beneficial to communities to have their members, especially their youth, associated with disciplined and structured environment of the Steelband pan yards.” In this regard, Cabinet has approved a Remittance of $500.00 per Steelpan player for Panorama 2023. This measure would benefit and estimated maximum of 6,283 players to assist in funding out-of-pocket expenses as they travel to and from the pan yards. “These measures are aimed at taking advantage of the opportunities for human and social development, as well as engendering community pride and ownership that are available through greater participation in the Steelband movement and the structure and discipline it provides at its pan yards during the Carnival season and throughout the year,” the Ministry noted.