KINGSTON, Jamaica – The Jamaica government Tuesday announced plans to amend the Offences of the Person Act to increase the mandatory minimum sentence for murder from 15 to 45 years. Justice Minister Delroy ChuckJustice Minister, Delroy Chuck, in a statement to Parliament said legislation will be tabled shortly to address this issue. “In Section 3(1C) regarding eligibility for parole for capital murder, 3(1C)(a) – increase the mandatory minimum sentence to be served before being eligible for parole from 20 years to 50 years,” Chuck said. He said for non-capital murder, where the sentence given was life imprisonment, there will be an  increase in the mandatory minimum sentence to be served before being eligible for parole from 15 years to 40 years. In addition, where the sentence given was a term of years, there will be an increase in the mandatory minimum sentence to be served before being eligible for parole from 10 years to 35 years. Lamenting that the government and the public at large are extremely concerned about the levels of murder across Jamaica, Chuck told legislators, that harsher penalties are needed to punish criminals. Jamaica recorded 1,498 homicides in 2022, a two per cent increase over the corresponding period in 2021 when 1,474 murders were committed.. “Of this number, there were numerous instances of multiple killings occurring in any one event. We had an average of four persons being killed per day,” said Chuck. Jamaica still retains the death penalty for capital murder though no convicted person has been put to death since 1988. “The government is firmly of the view that these proposals achieve the objective of ensuring that the potential sentence matches the seriousness and gravity of the offence whilst remaining within the realm of constitutionality by preserving some degree of discretion in the Courts and allowing the possibility of a subsequent reconsideration of the court’s position,” Chuck said. “It ensures that in the reasonable and deserving cases, the circumstances of one’s case could be reconsidered to determine the appropriateness of continued incarceration,” Chuck said, noting that in very short order, a Bill will be laid in the House, reflecting the government’s position on the appropriate penalties to be applied to the offence of murder. “A clear and unmistakable message must be sent to potential killers that their wanton and heartless act will be met with disgust, repugnance and a lengthy period of incarceration. Having taken a life, the offender cannot and should not be allowed to enjoy the remainder or most of the remainder of his life freely and unburdened,” the Justice Minister told Parliament.