Port-of-Spain, Trinidad - Soca sweetheart, Nadia Batson has emerged as one of the top entertainers this carnival. For that reason, the singer/songwriter was chosen as one of two headline acts for Randy Glasgow’s ‘Soca For Her’ event, which takes place in February. “Our role in this industry, isn’t all business. As a promoter, we engage talent and deliver opportunities for artistes like Nadia and so many others, to live out their dreams, showcasing their ability to the world,” said Glasgow. Soca artist Nadia BatsonNadia Baston has been steadily climbing the ladder of success in the Caribbean. She consistently credits her team of architects, which includes manager and producer, Erikkson ‘Don Iko’ George and Avalon Gomez- a public relations and brand management maven, for her steady rise. Musically, Nadia has always been a gifted talent. Her songwriting prowess has seen her pen music for numerous artistes and certainly, herself. In 2021, as the Covid-19 pandemic wreaked havoc around the world, the ‘So Long’ singer and her team presented Carnival and Soca music enthusiasts with one of the most outstanding digital concert presentations seen. Recorded at the impressive 5 Islands Waterpark, Batson’s ‘Artform’ concert featured fellow entertainers, Lyrikal, Voice and Terri Lyons in a tightly produced Soca showcase, that would only increase her visibility and fan love. Throughout 2022, Nadia Batson toured the United States and other territories, sharing her talent with audiences outside of her native Trinidad and Tobago. “What we saw was an artist who capitalized on what many had been yearning for internationally. Those who couldn’t come home because of the pandemic and those who yearned for the Greatest show on Earth, which had not been staged for two years, were catered to, in a very intentional way,” said Glasgow. Batson will take the stage with SASS, at the Queen’s Park Savannah, on February 3rd. With hits like, ‘Soca Party,’ ‘Lift Up,’ ‘Endurance’ and others, Nadia is primed and ready to bring her brand of Soca sweetness to the capital city. “Nadia is a gem to our culture and we want to celebrate her. She deserves every bit of success she is having because she has put in the work,” said Glasgow, explaining that she will be joined by Patrice Roberts, backed by the A Team Band, as the show’s headline act. Soca music, still a growing genre, Glasgow believes it takes a cohesion among all sectors of the business, to push the genre. “We are intent on showcasing our country’s Soca artistes in the most meaningful way. When tourists visit our country for Carnival, they must see and experience something that’s showcased at a standard of international appeal. They must leave here, raving about what they saw, heard and experienced,” he emphasized.