HAMILTON, Bermuda – Bermudian Andre Lambe claimed a second belt after defeating Mexican Crisanto Lucio to clinch the vacant American Boxing Organization welterweight title at The Shed in Dockyard on Saturday night. Bermudian boxer, Andre Lambe. (Photo courtesy of The Royal Gazette on Twitter)The 27-year-old Lambe controlled the six-round bout throughout, en route to earning a unanimous points decision and extending his professional record to 7-0, having claimed the vacant American Boxing Federation welterweight belt last October. “For everyone that didn’t believe me, I hope I made you believers,” said Lambe after his victory over Lucio, who came into the bout with victories in his five previous fights. “On paper that definitely should have been my toughest test, but he wasn’t as tough as I thought he was going to be. I’ve had tougher fights and others have brought more intensity. He seemed like he was scared to engage. “It was about sticking to my gameplan. We worked nine weeks for this fight so it didn’t make any sense doing anything stupid to throw it away. Even though it is just me in the ring, it is a team sport and we got the job done. “That still wasn’t my best performance and there is a lot more to come. I had a great training camp and I want to keep showing people what I can truly do because I’m on my way,” added Lambe, a southpaw, who weighed in at 147 pounds, one pound heavier than his opponent. Lambe conceded he now needed to test himself outside of Bermuda to gain greater experience. “I definitely want to go away and get more exposure,” he added. “If I can go away, hopefully I can get more eyes on Bermuda and bring bigger fights to the island in the future. “We’re going to see what’s next. I need to sit down with my team and see what that next stage is. Maybe I’ll be fighting overseas, who knows, we’ll just have to see. “I’m going to keep putting in the hard work and keep on building.” In the other professional fight on the card, Bermudian Mikey Parsons, whose record now stands at 1-2, suffered a technical knockout in his super-welterweight encounter against American Zeleck Ruiz. The fight was stopped one minute 55 seconds into the second round on the advice of the doctor because of a cut to Parsons nose, which he later revealed he feared was broken.