GEORGETOWN, Guyana – CARICOM Secretary General, Dr. Carla Barnett, says improving governance is part of the solution to addressing slow and uneven implementation of policies within the 15-member regional integration grouping. CARICOM Secretary General, Dr. Carla Barnett (left) and Bahamas Foreign Affairs Minister, Fred Mitchell (CARICOM Photo)Addressing the 15th meeting of the CARICOM Council of Ministers, which is the second highest organ within the Community, Barnett said the reality is that the Council has primarily been organized to discharge two of the eight functions set out in the Revised Treaty of Chaguaramas that governs the integration grouping. She said under Article 13 of the Treaty, the Council is tasked with approving the programmes of the Community on the basis of proposals emanating from other Community Organs as well as amending proposals developed by the Ministerial Councils or request them to develop proposals for the achievement of Community objectives, and have responsibility for promoting and monitoring the implementation of Community decisions in the member states. She said Article 13 also sets out, at a more granular level, eight other tasks of the Council  including examining and approving the Community budget as well as ensure the efficient operation and orderly development of the CARICOM Single Market and Economy (CSME) that allows for the free movement of goods, skills, labour and services within the region. The Council is also to receive and consider allegations of breaches of obligations arising under the Treaty, including disputes between Organs of the Community. “The reality is that this Council has primarily been organized to discharge two of these eight functions set out in the Treaty, namely examine and approve the Community budget; and function as a preparatory body for meetings of the Conference”. She said that a third task aimed at enhancing the decision-making and implementation processes of the Community all aimed at promoting timely implementation of Community decisions very seldom figure on the agenda of the Council. “I do not say this to cast blame; there is enough of that already being thrown around by others in explaining the slow rate of implementation of Community decisions.  I say this to emphasize the importance of this Council seeking to exercise these functions in the future,” said Barnett, the eighth CARICOM Secretary General, who took up her position in August 2021. She said when regional leaders met in Suriname last July, “the impatience for improving performance was clear” whether it was in the conduct of the heads meetings, in the implementation of decisions generally, the focus on matters of critical importance to the Community such as climate change/climate finance, agriculture development, transportation, and crime and security. “These are all matters that, up to a few years ago were found on the agendas of this Council,” she said, adding “part of the solution to addressing slow and uneven implementation is the work on improving Community Governance, which Heads have agreed is to be done. “This Council has a critical role in moving this forward.  As a part of that process, the Secretariat must do better in ensuring that the matters that this Council is to consider are prepared and circulated in a more timely manner to facilitate proper consideration by Members of the Council, well before the meeting. “This is something that we at the Secretariat are seeking to improve, as part of the revamping of the governance processes which Heads of Government have mandated the Secretariat to work with the Lead Head of Government for Governance in the Quasi-Cabinet, through his Minister on this Council. This improvement will apply to all of the Councils of the Community.” Barnett told the Council, which is chaired by Bahamas Foreign Affairs and Public Service Minister, Frederick A. Mitchell, that its work “therefore, should help our citizens to recover from real challenges, assist in furthering integration of our economies and societies, and building a truly resilient region. “If we are to meet the challenges of 2023 frontally and accelerate the realisation of the vision of this Caribbean Community, then it is imperative that we engage with the tenacity that building this safe, prosperous and viable society requires. “We have made significant progress in the first 50 years of our Community, and the aim must be not only to build on that success, but to surpass it over the next 50,” she added.