PORT OF SPAIN, Trinidad – Prime Minister Dr. Keith Rowley Friday named the President of the Senate, Christine Kangaloo as the government’s nominee to replace Paula Mae Weekes as the seventh head of state of the oil-rich twin island republic. Christine Kangaloo. (Photo courtsey of the Office of Parliament)The announcement followed a “cordial” meeting between Prime Minister Rowley and Opposition Leader, Kamla Persad Bissessar, who later told reporters that she shared her concerns regarding “an active politician holding the post” and that she “strongly objects” to the nomination” Persad Bissessar, 70, who since 1995, has been the Member of Parliament for Siparia, serving as attorney general, minister of legal affairs and minister of education between 1995 and 2001, was a member of the Basdeo Panday government when the late ANR Robinson, an active politician, was elected as the third President of Trinidad and Tobago, serving from 19 March 1997 to 17 March 2003. Prime Minister Rowley, speaking at a news conference, told reporters that the meeting between the government and opposition delegations “was very cordial” and “we both agreed among ourselves that it would be best if we are able to have consensus, but we are not unmindful of the fact that it is possible we may not have consensus. “But the meeting went very well. The opposition was asked whether they had a nominee that they would like to put forward for consideration by our team, name or names…the opposition team indicated to us they met and looked over the situation and there is not a name they would want to advance.” Rowley said the government indicated it was still prepared to have a joint nominee and was allocating five of the 12 sports for parliamentarians to support the nomination of a new president until the deadline on Monday. “If we can go to the Parliament with some semblance or element of consensus, if on the other hand that is not to be had, then the government will have no choice but to fill out all 12 slots,” Rowley said, adding “but we would really be happy and I think the country would be better off if a qualified person as Senator Christine Kangaloo is our nominee going forward and we as parliamentarians can agree …that being a member of parliament does not disqualify you or anybody from holding the office”. The election for a new president is scheduled to be held on January 20 and according to a statement posted in the official Gazette, “A person shall not be a candidate for election as President of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago unless nominated for election by a nomination paper which (a) is signed by the candidate and by 12 or more Members of the House of Representatives, and (b) is delivered to the Speaker at least seven days before the election”. Rowley told reporters that President Weekes, who left the island earlier this week for vacation, had indicated that she would not be willing to serve a second term and that the new head of state will take up office in March. Kangaloo, an attorney, is the only person to serve as both President and Vice President of the Senate of Trinidad and Tobago, the first woman to serve as Senate Vice President and third woman to serve as acting President of Trinidad and Tobago and Senate President. She is a long-time member of the ruling People’s National Movement (PNM) and in 2001, became a member of parliament as an opposition senator under the tenure of Opposition Leader Patrick Manning. She also served as a government minister in several ministries and on 23 September 2015 she was elected as President of the Senate.