MADRID, Spain – Jamaica is on track to achieve an 11 percent growth this year as the island continues to recover strongly from the fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic . Tourism Minister Edmund Bartlett (Third from right) with other members of the Jamaica delegation at FITURGross foreign exchange earnings for the 2023 calendar year are also forecast to reach US$4.1 billion, an estimated 13.3 percent increase over last’s year’s earnings. “Jamaica’s tourism is back, and our recovery continues to outpace our earlier projections. We are now in growth mode and to achieve this in double digits for this year is huge. It will mean more jobs and more earnings for workers and the island’s economy,” said Tourism Minister, Edmund Bartlett at FITUR, the largest tourism trade show held annually in Spain “Tourism is Jamaica’s lifeblood and driver of economic growth and the industry’s growth means the country’s growth,” he added. The event here has attracted thousands of participants and the fair is regarded as the global meeting point for tourism professionals and the leading trade fair for inbound and outbound markets in Latin America. Jamaica tourism officials say the projected growth is based on the island’s primary markets registering growth over the previous period, with the United States showing steady growth of seven percent, Canada strengthening its position to deliver 38.7 percent growth and the United Kingdom and Europe primarily demonstrating growth of 5.3 percent through the Eastern European markets. “We could not achieve these successes without our partners. Our airline partners, tour operators, travel agents and so many more have contributed to the destination remaining top of mind and accelerating our recovery. “The Jamaica Tourist Board’s focus on an integrated sales and marketing strategy which is embedded in the pervasive use of new technologies along with a focus on new and emerging markets, has allowed the destination to leapfrog its own projections for growth,” said Donovan White, Director of Tourism. Tourism official note that as the destination recovery has outpaced earlier projections there is a high possibility that full recovery could be realized a year earlier than predicted.