PORT OF SPAIN, Trinidad –Trinidad and Tobago police preparing for this hectic “Mother of All carnival” celebrations that climaxes with the traditional street parade and jump-up on Tuesday, will have more than just revelers, but gangs to look out for. Bp Renegades performing during the semi-finals last weekend (Photo Wesley Gibbings/CMC)Newly appointed Police Commissioner, Erla Harewood-Christopher, has told the officers, particularly the men, that they belong to a very “professional organization” and as a result they should not encourage persons gyrating “or taking a wine” on them during the celebrations. “I want to ask our masquerades, particularly our scantily dressed ladies to desist from dancing, wining, gyrating on my officers. It is disrespectful and unwelcome,” she told a news conference. Asked by a reporter what should the masquerades do, if the officers do consent, she replied “I believe I lead a very professional organization and I doubt very much my officers will consent or even return a wine. The National Carnival Commission (NCC) has been promoting the celebrations, the first to be held following a two-year hiatus due to the COVID-19 pandemic as the “Mother of All Carnivals” and the police said at least 800 officers in addition to 300 members of the Trinidad and Tobago Defence Force will be on duty. “We are ready. We have done our homework and we are prepared to address the challenges and all the issues we can mitigate in treating with Carnival 2023,” said ACP Collis Hazel. “You can expect various types of security patrols on Carnival days. We will be there, out and about. On foot, on mobile, aerial patrols, on the sea, on bicycles, on motorbikes…even drones.” The police are also warning criminals to “think twice” if they are planning to engage in any criminal activity during the celebrations, the highlights of which this weekend will be the Calypso Monarch and the Panorama competitions. The winner of the National Diamond Jubilee Independence Calypso Monarch and this year’s Young King Calypso Monarch, Skatie (Carlos James), is among 11 singers who will challenge the reigning monarch, Terri Lyons, at the Calypso Monarch finals to be held at the Queen’s Park Savannah in the capital on Sunday night with a first prize of TT$800,000 (one TT dollar=US$0.16 cents) inclusive of a vehicle. The other calypsonians who have advanced to the finals include former monarchs Karene Asche (2011) and Chuck Gordon (2014 and 2015). The Panorama competition will take place on Saturday night with 13 steel bands vying for the top spot including BP Renegades and Desperadoes that have each won the title 11 times.  Renegades has won the preliminary and semi-finals this year and appear favorites to win playing the tune “Black man feel toparty” by the Black Stalin, who died on December 22 last year at the age of 81. Several other steel But the International Soca Monarch competition, which had become a staple in recent years and attracted regional and international singers will not be held on Friday night as the organizers have said financial difficulties have led to its cancellation this year.