KINGSTON, Jamaica – The Jamaica government Tuesday said the United Nations has ratified the country’s efforts to bolster resilience in global tourism by officially designating February 17th as Global Tourism Resilience Day annually. Minister of Tourism, Hon. Edmund Bartlett, provides details about the first-ever Global Tourism Resilience Conference scheduled to be held in Jamaica. He was speaking during the event’s launch on Thursday (January 12), at the Jamaica Tourist Board in Kingston. (Photo courtesy of JIS)“This is a signal honor for Jamaica which highlights the fact that our nation continues to have such significant influence on the international stage. This is very timely as the devastating impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is still being felt and is causing a strain on many tourism-dependent states as they struggle to recover,” said Tourism Minister, Edmund Bartlett. Bartlett, who made a presentation on Global Tourism Resilience during the UN General Assembly meeting in New York on Tuesday added that Global Tourism Resilience Day emphasizes the importance of building tourism resilience across the world to fuel sustainable growth and development. “This observance will aid in increasing the awareness and actions of global tourism stakeholders towards boosting the industry’s capacity to effectively handle and recover swiftly from major disruptions, such as pandemics, earthquakes and other natural disasters.” Bartlett has been playing a leading role in promoting the need for tourism dependent states in particular, to be prepared for inevitable internal and external shocks and to have a body that they can look to for support that will aid them in recovering quickly. He has been spearheading the Global Tourism Resilience and Crisis Management Centre (GTRCMC) and co-authored with University of the West Indies Professor Lloyd Waller, the publication “Tourism Resilience and Recovery for Global Sustainability and Development: Navigating COVID-19 and the Future.” A government statement said that the designation follows months of high-level discussions and diplomatic engagements, noting that apart from Bartlett, Prime Minister Andrew Holness had in September last year called for the official designation of February 17 as Global Tourism Resilience Day annually when he addressed the 77th session of the United Nations General Assembly  (UNGA). The statement said Jamaica will officially recognize Global Tourism Resilience Day during the first ever Global Tourism Resilience Conference, which will be held from February 15-17, at the University of the West Indies (UWI) here. It said that while in New York Bartlett will also fulfill a packed schedule of high-level tourism marketing and development engagements before returning to the island.