GEORGETOWN, Guyana – CARICOM says it will continue to work with its “long standing partners” as the regional grouping seeks to enhance its economic, social and environmental resilience, and counter inherent vulnerabilities. CARICOM Secretary General Dr. Carla Barnett accepting the credentials of the new Mexico Ambassador to the regional integration grouping Mauricio Vizcaino Crespo CARICOM Secretariat photoCARICOM Secretary General, Dr. Carla Barnett, accepting the credentials of the new Mexico Ambassador to CARICOM, Mauricio Vizcaino Crespo, said that the grouping would look towards Mexico “to support our efforts to strengthen our infrastructure, bolster our most promising revenue-generating industries and fortify our capacity in areas that remain essential for our sustainable development”. She told the Mexican diplomat that CARICOM values the bonds of friendship forged with Mexico dating back to 1974 when the Spanish-speaking country became the first country established a joint commission with CARICOM. “This cooperation mechanism laid the foundation for the meaningful relationship of which today’s ceremony is emblematic,” she said, adding “your accreditation is warmly welcomed as yet another indication of Mexico’s ongoing commitment to ensuring that the immense potential of this relationship is fully realized. “There are consistent opportunities for our collaboration through diplomatic ties marked by regular political engagements and structured development cooperation arrangements. Over the years, these opportunities have grown more robust, taking into account changes in the political, social, cultural and economic environments.” Barnett said that the broadening of the areas of collaboration has encapsulated the dynamism of their relations, adding “as a result, we have witnessed greater cross-institutional cooperation and the successful implementation of initiatives which positively impact our region”. The CARICOM Secretary General said that she is looking forward to the convening of the Fifth CARICOM-Mexico Summit and Eighth Mexico-CARICOM Technical Cooperation Program, which are integral mechanisms for deepening our long and steadfast relationship. Barnett said those cooperation mechanisms allow the region to benefit from Mexico’s advancement in areas of mutual interest and provide opportunities for the exchange of valuable best practices. “The technical assistance your country has provided to CARICOM in capacity building in areas such as agriculture, health, transportation, disaster risk management, education, climate change, information and communications technology (ICT), trade and investment, and tourism have been invaluable measures of support. “Similarly, the extension of the Mesoamerica Project to the region is tangible evidence of Mexico’s willingness to assist in advancing the sustainable development prospects of our member states,” Barnett said, noting that the bonds between CARICOM and Mexico are not limited to common interests, but also include shared values and positions. “As the Community strives to reduce its vulnerability and increase resilience, we note that Mexico’s membership of the G20 provides an important platform to promulgate the views of the region’s small, developing nations.” Barnett said that CARICOM is looking forward to Mexico’s “continued support in ensuring that due account is provided on the global stage to the Region’s development agenda, its vulnerabilities and the unique needs of our Small Island and Low-lying Coastal Developing States (SIDS)”. In his brief address, the Mexican diplomat said Mexico and CARICOM are committed partners in development cooperation. “The successful implementation of the projects agreed in the past years have made a direct contribution to capacity-building and have laid the foundation for us to keep working in concert towards the future,” he said, adding that he hoped at the Mexico-Caribbean summit in May “we can all together reconfigure our alliances and deliver even more benefits to our populations”.