ROSEAU, Dominica – The United Arab Emirates-based Range Developments, an investment and hospitality company, operating across the Eastern Caribbean, says no Dominican jobs will be affected as it announced a change in the management and operation of the 151-room Cabrits Resort & Spa in Portsmouth, north of here. View over the Cabrits Resort & Spa,Range Developments, which was founded in 2011, has already completed two five-star luxury resorts in the Caribbean, including one in St. Kitts-Nevis and is undertaking a third project in Grenada, said that following a periodic review it was changing the Kempinski Group as manager and operator of  resort here to InterContinental Hotels & Resorts (IHG). “The changeover will take place at the end of March 2023 by agreement with both operators. No Dominican jobs at the resort will be affected by the switch, while all staff will be given training sessions by InterContinental to bring them up to speed with the company’s values and culture,” said Range Developments, which regards itself as a regional leader as a Citizenship by Investment (CBI) developer. Under the CBI, several Caribbean countries, including Dominica, provided citizenship to foreign investors in return for making a significant contribution to the socio-economic development of these islands. Range Developments said that IHG is one of the world’s leading hotel companies, with 208 InterContinental properties employing about 325,000 people in 100 different countries. “We are delighted to welcome InterContinental Hotels & Resorts to Dominica, which has established an unparalleled legacy in the luxury hospitality space,” said Mohammed Asaria, Range Developments managing director. “InterContinental Dominica Cabrits Resort & Spa will offer experiences that suit play, adventure and relaxation, and we look forward to extending our relationship with IHG to bring this stunning property to life. We acknowledge and appreciate the dedicated hard work and professionalism of all the Kempinski team who have contributed to the success of Cabrits Resort & Spa since its opening four years ago.” Range Developments said that the Cabrits Resort & Spa has transformed the economy of the northern town of Portsmouth and surrounding areas, providing jobs to hundreds of people, and bringing thousands of tourists every year.