Burbank, California – On a day dedicated to love and partnerships Disney Music Group and Andscape are pleased to announce their global deal with Good Company Records, a new record label created by Oscar and Grammy-winning producer and songwriter D’Mile, accomplished Music Executive Natalie Prospere and Grammy-winning mixing and audio engineer, John Kercy. The deal was announced today by Disney Music Group (DMG) Head of Creative Mio Vukovic and DMG President Ken Bunt, along with Andscape Vice President and Editor-in-Chief Raina Kelley. (From left to right: Mio Vukovic, John Kercy, Natalie Prospere, D’Mile, Ken Bunt)Good Company Records backed by Andscape/DMG is the creation of the award-winning, prolific producer and songwriter, who has worked with H.E.R., Silk Sonic, Rihanna, Bruno Mars, Janet Jackson, Mary J. Blige, Ty Dolla $ign, Chris Brown, Lucky Daye and Charlie Wilson amongst many others. D’Mile is the first songwriter in history to win back-to-back Grammys for the prestigious Song of The Year category for H.E.R.’s “I Can’t Breathe” in 2021 and Silk Sonic’s “Leave The Door Open” in 2022. D’Mile won The Academy Award for Best Original Song for co-writing and producing “Fight For You” from the film “Judas and the Black Messiah” in 2021. D’Mile recently won the BMI Songwriter of the Year award and received the highly coveted Producer of the Year Grammy nomination for 2023. Natalie Prospere is a multi-hyphenate music executive with experience in artist development, talent management, and consultation for artists and companies alike. Under Prospere’s management, her roster of world-class writers, producers, and artists has garnered over 10 multi-platinum RIAA Awards, multiple Top 10 Billboard chart entries, and numerous Grammy awards. John Kercy is a Grammy award-winning mixing and audio engineer who has worked with an esteemed array of musicians from Lucky Daye, to Lil Wayne, Disclosure, Diddy, Ty Dolla Sign, Normani, Kordae, and more. In addition to signing and developing artists, Good Company will be involved in a variety of projects with other Andscape units. Beginning with the upcoming Andscape documentary, “Shyne,” a film about the life and transformation of hip hop star Shyne from a member of Sean “Puff Daddy” Combs’ Bad Boy record label to a statesman in the Belize House of Representatives. Prospere is also the creator of “Friends Only” and will spearhead a culture-bridging project that specializes in equitable artists partnerships. The “Friends Only” collective places emphasis on the importance of organic relationships and forward-thinking development throughout the Caribbean and Black diaspora. “We could not be more excited about working with the talented team behind Good Company and our partnership with Andscape. It allows us the dream of creating a home to cultivate and nurture Black artists through storytelling” said DMG Head of Creative Mio Vukovic. Added DMG President, Ken Bunt, “It’s special and unique to have a shared vision for the future of music, and the opportunity to visually tell new stories with Andscape. We can’t wait to collaborate with D’Mile, Natalie, John, and the Andscape team to deliver on this goal. Andscape’s Raina Kelley added, “D’Mile, Natalie and John are special individuals – each true to Andscape’s vision; deep and dimensional multi-hyphenate storytellers – we’re thrilled to welcome them to the Andscape family. This incredible partnership vaults forward Andscape’s evolution as a content creator across The Walt Disney Company. D’Mile, Natalie Prospere, and John Kercy added, "We are so excited to partner with Disney/Andscape on our label, Good Company. Disney is a place where we believe all of our creative ideas can come to life and we are looking forward to where this partnership takes us!"