KINGSTON, Jamaica – Local government elections have been postponed for a further 12 months, and are to be held no later than February 28, 2024. Minister of Local Government and Rural Development Desmond McKenzie in the House of Representatives on Tuesday.This follows approval of the Representation of the People (Postponement of Elections to Municipal Corporations and City Municipalities) Act, 2023 in the House of Representatives. The Bill was passed without amendment. Twenty-nine Members of Parliament voted for the postponement, while the eight Opposition MPs voted against it. Minister of Local Government and Rural Development Desmond McKenzie, who piloted the Bill, explained that the postponement will allow the country to continue its post-COVID-19 economic recovery. “The Government is sharply focused on two main things: 1) building national resilience against any further economic shocks, whether… manmade or natural disaster; and 2) the expansion and maintenance of strong economic growth that all our citizens can feel and see at a personal level. “It is carefully considered, the position of the Government, that the holding of the municipal elections at this time will carry a significant risk diverting the country from these two vital tasks… that is fully accepted,” he said. Noting the importance of the elections, McKenzie pointed out that the Government is seeking a little more time to ensure that the significant expenditure that the elections require will be effectively managed alongside other priorities in the economy. The Minister also noted that the postponement will provide further time to conclude consultations regarding Portmore becoming Jamaica’s 15th parish. “It is the commitment of the Government that Portmore becomes the 15th parish and, as such, [the] postponement will help us to conclude the consultations that are presently taking place. “The Portmore Municipal Council has requested further time for consultations… because we want when the time rolls around, the people of Portmore… move to cast their votes as the 15th parish of Jamaica,” he said. McKenzie urged Jamaicans to respect the Government’s decision to postpone the elections. Opposition legislators had refused to support legislation to further postpone the Local Government Elections, with Opposition Leader Mark Golding saying that the repeated postponements were a disgrace. Local government elections, which were slated to be held this month, were last held in 2016.