After a trying first year in office, there was much to reflect on, from the tragedy at Surfside Towers to the mounting housing crisis. In either case, the new mayor has faced each challege head on and hands on. Miami-Dade Mayor Daniella Levine Cava (Photo via Twitter)Her previous community and civic work was helpful in her leadership and direction. For her nonprofit work, Levine Cava has the Most Distinguished Pioneer Award from the National Alliance to Nurture the Aged and the Youth and the Joanne Hayes Democracy and Mentoring Award from the League of Women Voter Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava shared various themes during her first in-person State of the County address. She noted critical ongoing efforts to build tens of thousands of new affordable housing units to green initiatives like the Extreme Heat Action Plan. Her address included three incoming programs designed to upskill workers, stimulate business ingenuity and loop in residents of less well-to-do areas. She also addressed the county’s 1.5% unemployment rate, diminishing levels of gun violence and encouraging progress on countywide mass transit development after more than a decade of stagnation and misspent tax dollars. The Mayor noted good news in the travel and tourism industires. Miami International Airport had its busiest year ever. PortMiami welcomed more than 4 million cruise passengers and enjoyed an estimated 3% cargo uptick. She noted her proposed 1% countywide property tax cut Commissioners approved in July. It marked the first such ad valorem reduction in more than a decade and equated to $25 million in savings for residents. Miami-Dade is also making “historic investments” on pollution-fighting efforts, septic-to-sewer conversions and myriad other eco-friendly work, she said. In August, Levine Cava announced the HOMES Plan to invest $85 million into affordable housing initiative, and the recently expanded Emergency Rental Assistance Program, which has distributed more than $110 million in additional funds to some 22,000 families facing eviction. “The program has been so successful that we expanded eligibility and we continue securing new funds from the federal government — $13 million just two days ago,” she said. Residents leasing their homes now have a tenants’ bill of rights granting protections against undue charges, short-notice evictions and sharp rent increases. For entrepreneurs with micro and small businesses, the Strive305 incubator offers access to capital, training and a growing online library of free, on-demand courses to help them to upscale and grow their bottom lines. You can read more on Mayor Daniella Levine Cava's new initiatives and programs here: https://www.infocustv.online/post/miami-dade-mayor-daniella-levine-cava-outlines-the-future Article originally posted on Infocus TV.