WASHINGTON, DC – The United States has imposed visa restrictions on Haitians involved in street gangs and other criminal organizations, saying that the additional steps are necessary to support Haiti by continuing to promote accountability for individuals who foment violence, corruption and instability. US Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken“The United States remains deeply concerned by the ongoing lawlessness associated with armed gangs,” said US Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken in a statement. “We condemn in the strongest terms the violent gang activity that led to the death of 14 members of the Haitian National Police in January.” Blinken said the US State Department has designated an additional five individuals and seven family members as subject to visa restrictions under the Immigration and Nationality Act. “This policy impacts Haitian officials and other individuals involved in the operation of street gangs and criminal organizations that have threatened the livelihoods of the Haitian people and are blocking life-saving humanitarian support. This action sends a clear message of our continued commitment to root out corruption and impact the behavior of bad actors whose influence underpins the lawlessness in Haiti.” This will bring the number of individuals identified as subject to visa restrictions under this policy to 44 since the policy was first announced on October 13, 2022. The US Secretary of State said Washington continues to identify individuals and their immediate family members who may be subject to visa restrictions under this policy. “Our actions today demonstrate that there are consequences for those instigating violence and unrest in the country,” he said. In addition to these visa restrictions, Blinken said the State Department has also designated three Haitian officials, including Joseph Lambert and Rommel Bell, under another visa restriction authority. In November and December 2022, the United States designated four Haitian individuals—Lambert, Youri LaTortue, Rony Celestin, and Herve Fourcand — under Executive Order 14059, which includes both financial sanctions and visa restrictions. “We continue to support the citizens, organizations and public servants in Haiti who are committed to generating hope and opportunity for a better future in their nation,” Blinken said. Haiti has called on the international community, “especially those countries that can help” to support efforts to deal with the ongoing socio-economic and political situation in his country. Prime Minister Henry, who succeeded the assassinated President Jovenel Moise, as head of the government in July 2020, has said to deal with this situation, his administration is urging the international community to participate in a specialized multinational force to help the Haitian security forces to fight against the proliferation of organized crime, the illicit trafficking of arms and ammunition, and eradicate the gangs that have held the country hostage. United Nations Secretary General, Antonio Guterres reiterated his urgent appeal to member states to understand the urgency of acting quickly to support the solutions chosen by Haitian actors.