Charlestown, Nevis - On February 15th, Nevis and Cape Air celebrated the launch of the leading regional airline service to Nevis by welcoming the inaugural Cape Air flight from St. Thomas to Nevis at a ceremony befitting the occasion. Present at the ceremony were: Hon. Eric Evelyn, Deputy Premier; Hon. Jahnel Nisbett, Jr. Minister in the Ministry of Health; Devon Liburd, CEO of the Nevis Tourism Authority; Ms. Katya Ruiz, Regional Marketing Director of Cape Air; Mr. Wilfred Omoare, Regional Station General Manager of Cape Air, Mr. Oral Brandly, General Manager of Nevis Air and Sea Ports Authority, other government officials and Nevis Tourism stakeholders. Upon their arrival, passengers were greeted by a Nevisian Masquerade band and tote of goodies to commemorate the event, provided by Nevis Tourism Authority and Cape Air. In December of 2022, Cape Air announced that they would be providing Nevis with air access to major United States airline flights via a convenient connection at St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands. Cape Air has interline and code share agreements with American Airlines, Delta, JetBlue and United Airlines which gives travelers the opportunity to book one ticket fares from U.S. cities to Nevis using any of the aforementioned airlines. “This flight service agreement offers travelers from North America the opportunity to connect in a more seamless way, we are looking forward to welcoming them and sharing the beauty of our destination. There are scores of Nevisians living in the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico and this flight will give them the opportunity to travel home directly, so we hope to see an increase in new visitors, as well as those visiting their home country,” said Devon Liburd, CEO of the Nevis Tourism Authority. Cape Air has once again begun providing airlift to the island of Nevis. One daily flight and two flights on Sundays will operate between St. Thomas’ Cyril E. King Airport and Vance Amory International Airport in Nevis. Daily flights from Nevis to St. Thomas will depart at 10:15 am and arrive at 11:34 am on flight number 7361. There will be an additional flight from Nevis to St. Thomas on Sundays which will depart at 10:15 am and will arrive at 11:34 am on flight number 7362. Daily flights from St. Thomas to Nevis will depart at 5:42 pm and will arrive at 7:00 pm on flight number 7361. There will be an additional flight from St. Thomas to Nevis on Sundays which will depart at 5:42 pm and will arrive at 7:00 pm on flight number 7362.