Ft Lauderdale, FL — Steve Higgins Productions spread its wings to the nethermost region of the southern hemisphere, touching down in Melbourne Australia January 2023, with a nostalgic Jamaican cultural show to an enthusiastic gathering of Jamaicans and non-Jamaicans. The Show, commemorating Jamaica’s 60th anniversary as an independent nation, was its inaugural performance in the Asia-pacific region, expanding the Steve Higgins Productions’ Jamaica-60 Diamond Jubilee Tour which began in April 2022 in Houston Texas. That tour featured singers Dahlia Wynter, April Marr and Steve Higgins, who sang Jamaican Folk Music, delivered in their historical context, (along with the stories behind them) Reggae favorites as well as other genres of delightful music. Several Jamaicans in the audience had not visited their homeland in decades and had an obvious longing for our rich rhythmic and exciting Jamaican Folk music, along with the colorful stories and accounts that made their hearts tingle with delight and nostalgia! When some familiar folk songs started, they broke out into spontaneous enthusiastic dancing and spirited child-like prancing, bubbling with excitement and vigorous abandonment! Of course, the non-Jamaicans watched with jealous but admirable delight, some joining in the fun at the cozy “Bar Next Door”, host of this tropical soiree. Aussies who were present, who have not yet visited Jamaica, have declared their intention to do so in very short order! Radio personality and impresario Stick Mareebo took to the stage with his signature dance and rap, while and DJ Zare Demus took control of the After Party. “I enjoyed it tremendously- Nostalgia! … and was transported for a moment to my beloved Island”, beamed Her Excellency Shorna-Kay Richards- Jamaica’s Ambassador with responsibility for Australia, “I believe you brought much joy and evoked wonderful memories for the audience”. Higgins’ Australian appearance was part of the Series dubbed “Love & Nostalgia”, which was launched by Consul General Oliver Mair and Mayor Judy Paul in 2022 in Davie, Florida. Special recognition was given to the quality work that Steve Higgins Productions has been doing as Jamaican Cultural ambassadors over the years, in the Diaspora across the continents. The Troupe presented concerts and workshops on Jamaican Folk Music in Texas, Alabama (Huntsville and Birmingham), New York, North Carolina, London, Birmingham (UK) and multiple cities in Florida. Steve Higgins Productions received Proclamations from The Town of Davie, Florida as well as Huntsville, Alabama (Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion), recognizing their music and their work in the communities in promoting Jamaica’s anniversary of independence. Higgins also received certificate of special Congressional Recognition from the US Government for his contribution to the community. The Jamaica 60 Tour presents exciting, interactive, and informative Cultural Workshops, as well as a signature Concert, featuring Jamaican and international genres. “Our events attract a diverse audience of all ethnicities including Caribbean nationals, Americans, Britons, cultural enthusiasts, scholars, and music lovers”, said Steve Higgins, Producer of the Tour, “We will reach children of all backgrounds and share our culture” Higgins says, “and we thank our Jamaican Consulates, Embassies and High Commissions for their strategic partnership and strong support as we promote Jamaica’s culture in the global community”. “This Legacy Tour—an educational exposé on Jamaican folk music,” says Higgins,” features every aspect of Jamaican life including love, “labrish”, spirituality, slavery and life celebrations. The songs are indigenous to Jamaica and come from a mixture of influences—Africa, Britain, Spain, the Maroons and Jamaica’s indigenous people, the Tainos.” Songs such as “Day-O”, “Manuel Road”, “Dis Long Time Gal”, “Colon Man” and “Fan Mi Soldier Man” elicited feelings of interest, nostalgia and fun! The Jamaica-60 tour, sponsored by the Jamaica Tourist Board, is designed to be a narrative of Jamaica’s history through music and a way to pass the culture down to descendants of Jamaicans. Part proceeds will go to the Partners for Youth Foundation and the STEP Centre for Children with multiple disabilities.